# THE PARADOXICON


### Principle 1: Nothing is Perfect


What is 'Nothing'? What does it mean to be 'Perfect'? How and why is Nothing Perfect? Can we, Humans of Earth, attain or recreate this state of Perfection? Why or why not?


#### Part 1: Nothing


Take one moment and imagine something. It does not matter what you imagine, only that you try to clearly visualize as many details as possible. You don't even need to close your eyes.

What do you see? The glowing sunset off of a glistening beach as a great day comes to a close? The look on their face when you first said, "I love you"? Or maybe it was the last moment you saw them before you lost them forever? We all have memories of our experiences, and the ones that stick out are always more emotional. But, perhaps you didn't visualize a memory; when I said to imagine "something" you might have pictured the computer you're looking at, a favorite book of yours, a sibling, or maybe a work of art. Whatever you saw, it was certainly something.

Now, I would like you to do the opposite: take a moment and imagine Nothing.

What do you see? Does it have form or shape? Is there light and color to it or is it complete darkness? Is it even possible to describe such a concept inherently lacking of all comparative descriptors?

**Try** to picture it. It is peaceful as it is completely undisturbed; it is a state with an infinite lack of any material thing; it is without all; it is what lies beyond the event horizon of all black holes; it is the space between the atoms that comprise these glowing pixels at which you stare; it is the grand, all encompassing null; it is the empty set without brackets; it is the unspoken, unsymbolized Zero; it is the blank page that waits, patiently, to be filled with the fruit of creation; it is you before your grandparents were born, and it will be you when your impact upon reality has been completely forgotten--your existence reduced to that a tombstone, the inscribed name of which has weathered away long ago. Nothing is a forever of emptiness -- a reality of absence. This absence is the true beginning of everything -- the birthplace of existence as a whole; in the beginning, there was Nothing, and in the end, there will be Nothing again.

Nothing is defined as the complete and total absence of all things. If you can accept this definition then you will be able to Understand the rest of this post and the Principles, as it will serve as the foundational bedrock upon which all following Knowledge can be applied to for your comparison-based Understanding. However, if you can believe this concept, as I've described it, then know that you already walk upon the right path in life.

I will explain 'Knowing' and 'Understanding' as well as 'accepting' and 'believing' later on in Principle 9.

In the context of Mathematics, the number Zero, or '0', represents an attempt to define and apply the concept of Nothing. This means that Nothing is Equivalent to 0, such that 'Nothing = 0' is true. I will explain 'Equivalency' and its relation to 'definition' and 'value' later on in Principle 3.

With the relation of 'Nothing = 0', it is clear that Nothing is of similar nature to 0. However, 0 is conceptually limited to Mathematics because 0 has defining features, and it is thus not Nothing, but something; in Mathematics, 0 is a number. Specifically, 0 is the integer that comes before the number One, or '1'. 0 is a natural number, a placeholder, and it is neither positive nor negative. 0 is actually an even number too. These characteristics define and distinguish it from Nothing, as well as make 0 an inadequate conceptual representative of Nothing; the state of Nothing, in its totality, cannot be 'encapsulated' or described in a truly encompassing manner by a symbol or concept that exists, and, in fact, to use language, symbols, concepts, or objects in an attempt to describe or Understand the reality of absence is a waste of energy because you annihilate Nothing in the process of conjuring or manifesting 'things' to describe it with. You're better off in your attempts to Understand Nothing by pondering a blank piece of paper or the space between stars in the night sky. I recognize the irony in this, as I am attempting to describe Nothing to you with something -- these words -- yet I still must define it for you to maintain internal consistency and thus truth in this: my message to the world.

Gaining a full Understanding of Nothing, or anything else, requires Application of it as a concept, and, for utilizing language and symbols to apply or convey that conceptual Knowledge, as I am doing with these words you are now reading, it is most accurate to symbolize the state of Nothing with the word itself. Leaving a blank in an equation wouldn't really be readable, unless you are looking for the blank and aware that such an absence actually carries meaning, but such symbols or constants like '0' or '{}' do not do Nothing's magnificence the justice it deserves nor do they truly represent the existence I am and will continue to define.

I am trying to say that while 'Nothing = 0' is true, the statement 'Nothing = 42' is also true, but I cannot yet explain why until Principle 2. If you accept that Nothing can Equal 42 -- and that 'Nothing = 42' is a true statement -- then it would be illogical to represent Nothing as the well-established concept and symbol of '0' because '0 = 42' is nonsensical and crazy; however '0 = Nothing = 42' is a true statement that you would accept as such, if you fully Understood the state of Nothing and the substance of which it is made. For now, this is as far as I can explain Nothing, but, later on in this Principle and mainly in Principle 2, I will dive into much greater detail regarding this seemingly paradoxical nature and substance that comprises Nothing, makes it Perfect, and distinguishes it from our shared reality: the entirety of Everything.


#### Part 2: Perfection and perfection


So, what is Perfection, and how is Nothing related to it?

Within Nothing -- the reality of absence -- there are no forms, no objects, no things that can be out-of-place. It is a reality of flawlessness as there a complete lack of anything that can be considered a 'flaw'; there are no imperfections in Nothing's infinite entirety, so it must be 'Perfect' by definition. In this way, Perfection describes a state of 'completion' and 'consistency'. By 'completion' I mean that Nothing is a state of substantive unity: there is no specific or defining attribute of Nothing that separates one part of it from another; there is no process or object that can be done or added to this state of absence which leads to any relative 'improvement' upon its current condition. By 'consistency' I mean that there is a feature of regular uniformity across the entire state; every aspect or thing that comprises the state is of Equal "material" or existence. I will further explain the term 'improvement' later on in this Principle.

Nothing is Perfect for Two main reasons: all defects are absent in the reality of absence making it linguistically, grammatically, and conceptually Perfect -- by definition -- as well as its "material" uniformity or balance, in an existential context. Again, I will further explain this counter-intuitive notion that Nothing is comprised of some "material" in Principle 2.

This concept of Perfection is difficult, if not impossible for the both of us, to truly have a living awareness of, due to Perfection's unattainability in our shared reality; to us, Perfection really only exists as a concept, an idea we see with our "mind's eye", a different form of existence that we cannot interact with until certain conditions are met or certain awarenesses are obtained.

Imagine a rock that fits in the palm of your hand. This rock is made up of small pieces, called molecules. The molecules that create this rock are all the exact same molecule linked together and repeated again and again, like a geological fractal. This rock is entirely comprised of this one molecule type -- there are no other molecules present, no traces of molecules from any other sources outside of this rock; this rock solely consists of one kind of molecule -- the 'rock molecule', if you will -- repeated in uniform rows, stacks, chains, and columns. Furthermore, this rock is special: this rock contains no defects in its molecular structure -- there are no gaps or kinks in the long chains of molecules that make up this rock. In fact, the only flaws of this rock are on its edge, its surface, where the lattice of rock molecules must end in order to be an edge. Now imagine if this rock began to grow (Note: The rock molecule has the hypothetical ability to replicate itself exactly in the middle of a chain. The replication process would be similar to an inorganic form of asexual reproduction, but without the need to input energy, thus making the process impossible and hypothetical as it defies the natural law we coined stating "energy must be conserved". The occurrence of replication and its placement within a chain is random. Additionally, this energy-less reproductive ability makes the rock incredibly difficult to destroy, like a starfish whose severed limbs grow into new, cloned starfish.). Being no bigger than your hand, the growth would be slow at first, but over time the rock keeps growing. First it grows larger than you, then larger than a building, then larger than a mountain, then larger than the Moon. At this point the rock -- having grown into a sizable planet -- would begin to affect the gravity of our Solar System in weird ways. Although this may be interesting to ponder, it is irrelevant because the rock continues to grow. The orbit of Pluto is now the circumference of this rock, but growth does not stop. Eventually, rock will be the size of the Milky Way Galaxy, but growth does not stop. Later, the rock will have grown to the size of the Observable Universe, but -- of course -- growth does not stop.

Now, during this period of rock growth, where have you imagined *we* are? Does the entirety of the Observable Universe now exist on the surface of this rock, being eternally pushed "outwards" as it continues to grow? Or, have you imagined the rock has simply "absorbed" Everything during this seemingly unending period of growth? If we are to maintain a sense of realism to this imagined scenario, I think the former is more "realistic". So, as the rock grows it simply collects the various objects, relics, entities, and other rocks of our existence as souvenirs to "keep" upon its surface. By the time the rock reached the size of Pluto's orbit, the Earth and Sun would be long destroyed with humanity having perished along with them. The rock's gravitational pull would be quite large, leading to no chance of an atmosphere in which life could survive. However, as the rock continues to expand, its volume becomes undeniably enormous. The still-existing matter and foreign molecules that made up the Observable Universe still reside on the rocks outer surface, but, as it grows **far** past the size of the Observable Universe, that foreign matter becomes *negligible* compared to the sheer volume of rock matter; the rock is now so impossibly big that we can treat all other matter as if it doesn't exist; for our intents and purposes, the rock molecule is the only form of matter that exists.

You may be curious as to why I'm diving into so much detail with this rock allegory. The reason is that if you can really picture this scenario occurring -- the rock with interesting molecular properties reaching the size of the Observable Universe -- *and still continuing to grow* -- then you can Understand the **realistic** forms of Perfection, which I will call the 'perfections'. This scenario is obviously impossible, but it demonstrates what would need to occur if the perfections could exist. The rock, with its flawless molecular constitution consisting of a constant, consistent, *orderly* repetition of one molecule of a specific structure, **is** perfect. To distinguish its substantive perfection, I will now capitalize 'Rock' (Note: In general, my capitalization is a denotation of importance or significance rather than signaling the relative Perfection of something. When dealing with Perfection, the perfections, or idealization in general, I will tend to use capitalization as a tool to differentiate the realistic or possible from the unrealistic or impossible. This will become more relevant shortly.). The fact that the Rock has the ability to grow, and It expands to the size of the Observable Universe, only serves to help you imagine what one form of perfection, or one state of perfection, would realistically "look like": an existence of constant order, in some fashion, where there is no aspect that particularly stands out. Inside the Rock, every component part -- the rock molecule -- is identical. This component consistency and the molecular lattice's flawlessness -- the lack of kinks, gaps, or foreign molecules in all chains -- make the Rock simultaneously perfect and impossible. The only reason that the Rock is *perfect* and **not** *Perfect* is because of its **flawed** edge; the presumable existence of this encompassing, bumpy, ever-shifting, *imperfect* perimeter distinguishes the Rock from an idealized state of Perfection; however, the Rock has the ability to grow, so if it expanded for...forever -- thus making its size **infinitely** large, and its imperfect edge essentially unfindable -- the Rock could then be considered Perfect and would constitute an *entire* **existence** of Perfection.

As I mentioned previously, there is also an alternative state of perfection that is equally as valid in its hypothetical idealization and not-Perfectness, as described by the Rock, yet entirely different in its characteristics. Imagine if all of the molecules of the Rock were no longer bound to each other; the molecules are now unchained, the lattice deconstructed, such that all molecules are floating in space as a gas. Assuming the continued negligibility of all other matter, or its conceptually simpler unexistence, the Rock molecule gas would still be the only form of matter that exists. In this scenario, the gaseous molecules would not need to replicate or continue their expansion to constitute an infinity, as, presumably, the space beyond this monstrous molecule cloud -- which can be recognized as the gas' wall-less container -- will, eventually, be briefly inhabited by a stray gaseous Rock molecule. This property of expansion makes the gas scenario altogether different from the solid scenario, and it could be considered Perfect if not for one phenomena: friction.

In the scenario wherein the Rock molecules formed a complete and solid lattice, our disregard of energy's need to be conserved allowed the Rock molecules to self-replicate without energy input. During the molecule replication process, we will assume the lattice reacts to the birth of a new molecule in such a way as to prevent gaps, bubbles, or other imperfections from forming so the Rock can still be considered perfect, and we can keep it capitalized; friction still exists, but it doesn't have the chance to cause an effect, due to the lattice's compensation of new molecules; new molecules don't "rub against" nearby others, thus depriving them of the chance to create heat. In the gaseous molecule scenario, friction *still exists*, but this leads to the production of an entirely different substance **in addition** to the free Rock molecules: photons. Eventually, a few gaseous Rock molecules will have participated in enough random collisions with other Rock molecules that they will be traveling at unimaginable speeds through the darkness. Given infinite time, two or more of these speeding Rock molecules would find each other in the expanse, come into contact, and explode releasing a burst of visible photons and the molecules' component atoms. Suddenly, despite our continued neglect of all other matter, this existence is no longer materially consistent, nor can it stay that way; after enough high-speed collisions and the addition of these forms of matter -- the photons and component atoms -- other than the gaseous Rock molecules, the gas scenario can no longer be considered Perfect. I would consider the imperfection of inconsistency equivalent to the surface imperfections present in the solid scenario, and so the gas scenario may be considered perfect.

These two scenarios of the gaseous and solid Rock molecules are comparable to the two realistic forms of Perfection, or the Two perfections. The Two perfections are Order and Chaos. Both perfections are defined by the actions of 'individuals'. An individual is any singular thing, object, or portion of matter that has the *ability* to act or be acted upon by an external force or separate individual. Individuals can be characterized by their 'ability' -- what they "do", their actions, impacts, or affects, as well as their capacity to be changed or affected by something other than them -- and their own respective characteristics, including color, shape, size, speed, momentum, smell, taste, texture, mass, etc. Their ability is defined by the interactions between an individual's characteristics and that individual's environment, and vice versa. Both perfections represent opposite ends of the spectrum regarding the features or characteristics of individuals. These differences of characteristics, in turn, result in noticeable changes in their ability; an individuals ability is determined, mainly, by their features and characteristics.

The solid scenario represents the perfection of Order in which all -- or the vast majority -- of the matter in existence is *uniform* and structured in an orderly fashion: there is no individual, no molecule, that is out-of-place or acting any different or 'individually' from the others; a state of Order implies indisputable invariability, complete conformity, and unwavering unity; if something has a state of Order, all of its component pieces **act** or **are** *exactly* the same resulting in similar, if not Equivalent, abilities; all Rock molecules remained steadfast and unchanging in the lattice, including their growth, which can be considered normal if not mundane behavior. The gas scenario represents the perfection of Chaos in which all -- or the vast majority -- of the matter in existence is individualized and acting on their own volition; every individual acts individually, as a separate entity from every other one, with correspondingly differentiated abilities. In the gas scenario, a single speeding Rock molecule would be considered an individual. This perfection is defined by the *abilities* of the individuals -- the various characteristics and distinguishers that identify one from other.

Chaos is the opposite of Order, and as such there is a state of Chaos when all individuals *are* individuals; in the perfection of Order, all individuals act as a single, infinite whole, while in the perfection of Chaos there are infinite individuals acting individually, each as a unique entity; within Order, all individuals are Equivalent in their ability, but, within Chaos, all individuals have different abilities. In Chaos, some number of individuals may have the same ability, but *all* individuals will not. This is the primary difference between Order and Chaos.

Furthermore, Order implies a stability; in a state of Order, if there *are* changes among individuals or their environment, the impact of those changes we be spread throughout all individuals Equally such that they will react to those impacts in the **same** manner -- they will act in unison. An example of this would be when a Rock molecule in the solid scenario would undergo replication. Chaos implies constant change (Note: The word Chaos has had a predominantly negative connotation when it is used. By that I mean when someone uses "Chaos" to describe something or some group, the thing being described is not preforming properly as it's "supposed" to or how it has preformed historically. When I use Chaos or Order, I use them with a neutral connotation in mind; I do not see the individuals I will describe with Chaos and Order as "bad" or "good". They merely comprise one of two polarized states.); in a state of Chaos, both the environment and the individuals within are doing different things in every instant. The constancy of change is due to a number of reasons, the most relevant one being the ever-changing, asymmetric environmental forces individuals to "adapt" or "react" to the new changes create differentiated individuals and vice versa when individuals act upon their environment or other individuals. (Note: The term 'environment' is interchangeable or Equivalent to the term 'reality'.)

You may notice that these states of Order, Chaos, and perfection don't really describe our shared reality in general, or very adequately. And I still haven't connected these concepts back to Nothing, nor explained how Nothing is Perfect.

Our reality is in a state of imperfection. The state of imperfection is defined as an existence where individuals and their environment are in a continuous undulation between order and chaos (Note: These forms of Order and Chaos are not capitalized due to their inherent lack of completion, as a result of their ever-shifting continuity; order and chaos are not states of perfection like Order and Chaos, instead they describe the state of imperfection. Order and Chaos are the unrealistic extremes of the existential spectrum of activity, while order and chaos describe everything in between. Due to the range of states which are described by order and chaos, they are much more apt descriptors for the multitude of individual types and 'perspectives' one might assume in an environment or in our reality. I will expand upon the term 'perspective' in Principle 7). For example, the cycle of day and night we experience on Earth, due to the structure of the Solar System in relation to the Moon and Sun, is orderly and predictable right now. Five billion years from now, the Sun will expand to the size of a Red Giant and engulf the Earth and Moon, completely destroying them. Leading up to that point of destruction, I would imagine the orderly cycle of day and night would drastically shift toward the disorderly or chaotic. The Solar System, as a whole, will still probably remain fairly orderly and continue along its merry way without Mercury, Venus, Earth, or the Moon. However, four billion years from now, our galaxy, the Milky Way Galaxy, will collide with the Andromeda Galaxy in an event that will surely result in both orderly, spiral, celestial bodies becoming an extremely colossal, cosmic, chaotic mess. These "frequent" shifts between order and chaos -- even on a time scale of billions of years -- best highlight the imperfection of our reality on all scales of magnitude.

I must be clear that while our reality -- Everything that is and as we Know it to be -- *is* imperfect, as described by its continual undulation between Order and Chaos, the **balance** between the Two states is more often dominated by Chaos, due to the 'fluid' nature of matter. I mean 'fluid' in both a literal and figurative sense. Figuratively, when you have matter, or 'something' in general, that thing, whatever it is, has the potential to be *altered* or *modified* in the Future, or a later instance in time; the potential for matter to be changed or altered into something new by an outside source, regardless of **when**, signals that the *fundamental* **nature** of matter is based on the *possibility for change to occur*. This leads to Chaos having a slight advantage over Order in all environments in which matter, or something, exists. And that leads to environments with interacting individuals comprised of matter being more likely to be described as 'in state of *Chaos*' rather than *Order*.

The opposite of our imperfect state is the state of Perfection. Just as our reality, in its imperfection, strikes a delicate yet weighted balance between Order and Chaos while maintaining **both**, simultaneously, Nothing strikes a similar balance between Order and Chaos such that it can reach the Perfect state. When Order is solely represented in its extremity, it is perfect and vice versa with Chaos; however, only when both Order and Chaos are exhibited **simultaneously**, can such a state be described as totally and completely Perfect. The only existence that can be described as Perfect is the existence of Nothing in which nothing exists. There are no "things" -- no **matter** -- *anywhere* in the infinite reality of absence, *no matter* **where** you look. If you think about it, the concept of location, and the use of 'where', don't even make sense in Nothing as there are no objects or things to which you can compare your position. Simply put, Nothing is the opposite of Everything, and so it must also be the opposite of our imperfect existence -- Perfect.

Because there is no matter, you might think that Nothing is entirely Orderly, as there is no individual of matter that can be considered out-of-order or disorderly. This is not the case, as there is another aspect of Nothing that allows the peculiar existence to be Equally described as Chaotic, and is thus able to balance with Order and be considered Perfect. I am unable to go into further detail on this aspect of Nothing without additional terminology more relevant for Principle 2, so it seems to me that this Part has served its purpose to the extent that it can.


#### Part 3: Principle Mentality


Treat this Principle like a mantra for life itself, because it truly applies to Everything. You may be disheartened to Know we can never achieve Perfection nor the pure perfections in our living reality, but do not let that Knowledge distract you from how freeing life based on imperfection really is; imperfection dictates that there will *always* be room to 'improve' upon whatever idea, thing, or action you are producing or preforming at a given moment, but, if you are aware that imperfection requires Everything else along with you to always be 'incomplete' and thus always chasing some unreachable end, then you should know that your work -- your effort -- is just as "good" or "bad" as Everything else; anything you do or make will always have the potential to be made more or less Orderly or Chaotic *by you* or some other external force or audience of individuals -- this 'improvement' is simply making your product or action more refined, neat, organized, or **Orderly**, or, on the contrary, more spontaneous, unique, original, random, or **Chaotic**. Everything is constantly changing so there is **no** possibility of reaching perfection *and keeping it*.

It feels as if, in all our endeavors, we knowingly strive for a form of perfection only to be confronted with the limitations of our reality of imperfection; the composition or synthesis of so many imperfect processes -- the creation of art, the construction and implementation of goods and services, the biological mechanisms that drive life, the physical properties that control our movements and that of the stars and subatomic quanta -- has **no chance** of producing a perfect product. I take comfort in Knowing that the normalcy of existence is defined by a standard of "adequacy" or "reasonableness" rather than extremity or flawlessness; if we could, by some unthinkable process, achieve perfection, then there would be a constant, incessant pressure from our peers if not existence itself to maintain that "standard" of prestige and immaculacy. I am grateful to live a life where I Know we all strive to attain something beyond ourselves, beyond our privileges, beyond our capabilities, yet the attainment of that perfection remains perpetually out of reach. And so we must take comfort with one another in Knowing that *we all fail* in our aspirations for an unreachable success in Equivalent ways, **whether we Know it or not**.

Nothing is Perfect, but Everything is imperfect. Knowing this is freedom from failure, freedom from the pressure of perfection that some may stupidly impose upon you, and freedom in recognizing *everything* you **are** and *everything* you **do** *is* perfect, in its own imperfect way.
